cip-190 deprecations (#1084)
neo4j/docs-cypher: modules/ROOT/pages/deprecations-additions-removals-compatibility.adoc

This section lists all of the features that have been removed, deprecated, added, or extended in different Cypher versions.
Replacement syntax for deprecated and removed features are also indicated.

[[cypher-deprecations-additions-removals-5.26]]
== Neo4j 5.26

=== Deprecated features

[cols="2", options="header"]
|===
| Feature
| Details

a|
label:functionality[]
label:deprecated[]
[source, cypher, role="noheader"]
----
MATCH (where {...})
----
----
MATCH (...)-[where {...}]->()
----

> | The unescaped variable named `where` or `WHERE` (or in any other casing) in a node pattern or a relationship pattern if directly followed by a property key-value expression only is deprecated. Use backticks to escape the variable name: `MATCH (++`where`++ { ... })` or `MATCH (...)-[++`where`++ { ... }]->()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a| The unescaped variable named `where` (or any casing variant, like `WHERE`) used in a node or relationship pattern followed directly by a property key-value expression is deprecated.
To continue using variables with this name, use backticks to escape the variable name:

* Node patterns: `MATCH (++`where`++ { ... })`
* Relationship patterns: `MATCH (...)-[++`where`++ { ... }]->()`
```

a|
label:functionality[]
label:deprecated[]
[source, cypher, role="noheader"]
----
... + n:A
----
----
... + n:A&B
----
----
... + n:A&B\|C
----

> | The unparenthesized label expression predicate as right-hand side operand of `\+` is deprecated. Parenthesize the label expression predicate on the right-hand side of `+`: `... + (n:A)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Using an unparenthesized label expression predicate as the right-hand side operand of `+` is deprecated.
Parenthesize the label expression predicate on the right-hand side of `+`: `... + (n:A)`.
```

a|
label:functionality[]
label:deprecated[]
[source, cypher, role="noheader"]
----
CASE x ... WHEN is :: STRING THEN ... END
----

> | The type predicate expression on an unescaped variable named `is` or `IS` (or in any other casing) as a when operand of a simple `CASE` is deprecated. Use backticks to escape the variable name: `CASE x ... WHEN ++`is`++ :: STRING THEN ... END`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Using an unescaped variable named `is`(or any casing variant, like `IS`) as a `WHEN` operand in a simple xref:queries/case.adoc#case-simple[simple `CASE`] expression is deprecated.
To continue using variables with this name in simple `CASE` expressions, use backticks to escape the variable name: `CASE x ... WHEN ++`is`++ :: STRING THEN ... END`
```

a|
label:functionality[]
label:deprecated[]
[source, cypher, role="noheader"]
----
CASE x ... WHEN contains + 1 THEN ... END
----
----
CASE x ... WHEN contains - 1 THEN ... END
----

> | The addition or subtraction on an unescaped variable named `contains` or `CONTAINS` (or in any other casing) as a when operand of a simple `CASE` is deprecated. Use backticks to escape the variable name: `CASE x ... WHEN ++`contains`++ + 1 THEN ... END` or `CASE x ... WHEN ++`contains`++ - 1 THEN ... END`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a| Using an unescaped variable named `contains` (or any casing variant, like `CONTAINS`) in addition or subtraction operations within a `WHEN` operand of a xref:queries/case.adoc#case-simple[simple `CASE`] expression is deprecated.
To continue using variables with this name, use backticks to escape the variable name:

* Additions: `CASE x ... WHEN ++`contains`++ + 1 THEN ... END` 
* Subtractions: `CASE x ... WHEN ++`contains`++ - 1 THEN ... END`
```

a|
label:functionality[]
label:deprecated[]
[source, cypher, role="noheader"]
----
CASE x ... WHEN in[1] THEN ... END
----
----
CASE x ... WHEN in["abc"] THEN ... END
----

> | The `[]` operator on an unescaped variable named `in` or `IN` (or in any other casing) as a when operand of a simple `CASE` is deprecated. Use backticks to escape the variable name: `CASE x ... WHEN ++`in`++[1] THEN ... END` or `CASE x ... WHEN ++`contains`++["abc"] THEN ... END`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a| Using the `[]` operator on an unescaped variable named `in` (or any casing variant, like `IN`) within a `WHEN` operand of a xref:queries/case.adoc#case-simple[simple `CASE`] expression is deprecated.
To continue using variables with this name, use backticks to escape the variable name.

 * `CASE x ... WHEN ++`in`++[1] THEN ... END` 
 * `CASE x ... WHEN ++`contains`++["abc"] THEN ... END`
```

Author: `CASE x ... WHEN ++`contains`++["abc"] THEN ... END` was copy–paste error on my part, it should be `CASE x ... WHEN ++`in`++["abc"] THEN ... END`, of course.

[[cypher-deprecations-additions-removals-5.26]]
== Neo4j 5.26

=== Deprecated features

[cols="2", options="header"]
|===
| Feature
| Details

a|
label:functionality[]
label:deprecated[]
[source, cypher, role="noheader"]
----
MATCH (where {...})
----
----
MATCH (...)-[where {...}]->()
----
a| The unescaped variable named `where` (or any casing variant, like `WHERE`) used in a node or relationship pattern followed directly by a property key-value expression is deprecated.
To continue using variables with this name, use backticks to escape the variable name:

* Node patterns: `MATCH (++`where`++ { ... })`
* Relationship patterns: `MATCH (...)-[++`where`++ { ... }]->()`

a|
label:functionality[]
label:deprecated[]
[source, cypher, role="noheader"]
----
... + n:A
----
----
... + n:A&B
----
----
... + n:A&B\|C
----
a| Using an unparenthesized label expression predicate as the right-hand side operand of `+` is deprecated.
Parenthesize the label expression predicate on the right-hand side of `+`: `... + (n:A)`.

a|
label:functionality[]
label:deprecated[]
[source, cypher, role="noheader"]
----
CASE x ... WHEN is :: STRING THEN ... END
----

> a| Using an unescaped variable named `is`(or any casing variant, like `IS`) as a `WHEN` operand in a simple xref:queries/case.adoc#case-simple[simple `CASE`] expression is deprecated.

Author: ```suggestion
a| Using an unescaped variable named `is` (or any casing variant, like `IS`) as a `WHEN` operand in a xref:queries/case.adoc#case-simple[simple `CASE`] expression is deprecated.
```
